Introduction
In this assignment, you will use the MERN stack to write a Single Page Application (SPA) that tracks exercises completed by the user. The front-end of the app will use Node and React as well as global design features. The backend will use MongoDB persistance, Mongoose, Express, REST, and Node.

This is the "Portfolio Assignment" for the course. This means that you are allowed to post the entirety of the assignment publicly (e.g., Github, personal website, etc.) after the term ends. You can use this as an opportunity to showcase your work to potential employers.

Note: The material you need to know to complete this assignment is covered in these Explorations:

Module 4 (CSS and global design features)
Module 5 (React)
Module 7, 8, 9 (MongoDB, Mongoose, Rest)
Use Movies app starter code from Modules 8 ---> and 9.
Be sure to periodically review Assignment 7 Tips Links to an external site.thread in the Ed discussion board (pinned at the top)

Learning Outcomes
What is the typical use of some frequently used HTTP methods? (Module 8 MLO 1)
What are HTTP headers and what is their use? (Module 8 MLO 2)
What is the use of HTTP response status codes? (Module 8 MLO 3)
What is the Express API for HTTP requests and responses? (Module 8 MLO 4)
What are REST APIs and how can we implement them using Express? (Module 8 MLO 6)
What is the lifecycle of a React component? (Module 9 MLO 1)
What are the useEffect and useHistory React hooks? (Module 9 MLO 2)
How can we deploy a React app created using create-react-app (CRA) (Module 9 MLO 3)?
What is the Fetch API? (Module 9 MLO 4)
Why do we need to lift up state in some apps? (Module 9 MLO 5)?
Basic Instructions
Develop a web app as a Single Page Application (SPA) using React, React Router, Express, MongoDB, Mongoose, REST, HTML, and CSS. The website will include the following pages, incorporate component files, use React Router, Link, State, useHistory, and useEffect.

Home page
Edit page
Create page
Understand the file structure
Frontend and Backend file structure and relationships between the two.
Data for the App
You will store the data in MongoDB in a collection named exercises. Each document in the collection must have the following properties (i.e., all properties are required):

Property	Data Type	Comments
name	String	The name of the exercise.
reps	Number	The number of times the exercise was performed.
weight	Number	The weight of the weights used for the exercise.
unit	String	The unit of measurement with values like: kgs, lbs, miles, etc.
date	Date	The date the exercise was performed.
REST API Web Service
The REST API for this assignment is very similar to the REST API for movies implemented in Module 8. Implementing that REST API will help you implement the REST API for this assignment. It must have its own directory (separate from the frontend/UI), its own package.json file, and its own node_modules folder. You must implement a REST API that supports CRUD operations by implementing the following 4 endpoints:

1. Create using POST /exercises
Request
The request body will be a JSON object with the 5 properties listed in the data model.
The POST request will have no path parameters.
Request Validation
You can assume that the request body is a JSON object. However, your code must validate the request body. If the request body is valid then a new document must be created and the "Success" response (described below) must be sent. If the request body is invalid then the "Failure" response (described below) must be sent. Here are the requirements for the request body to be valid:

The body must contain all 5 properties (in other words, if any of the 5 properties is missing, the request is invalid). New --> Add the required attribute to each input/select in the HTML.
The name property must be a string containing at least one character (i.e., it can't be empty or a null string).
The reps property must be an integer greater than 0.
The weight property must be an integer greater than 0.
The unit property must be a string of either kgs, lbs, miles, or other related option.
The date property must be of type date picked from the <input type="date">.
Response
Success: If the request is valid then a new document must be created and the following response must be sent
Body: A JSON object with all the properties of the document including the unique ID value generated by MongoDB.
Content-type: application/json.
Status code: 201.
Failure: If the request body is invalid then the following response must be sent
Body: A JSON object { Error: "Invalid request"} or a more specific message.
Content-type: application/json.
Status code: 400.
2. Read using GET /exercises
Request
No path parameter.
No request body (you don't need to validate this).
Response
Body: A JSON array containing the entire collection.
If the collection is empty, the response will be an empty array
Each document in the collection must be a JSON object with all the properties of the document including the ID.
Content-type: application/json.
Status code: 200.
3. GET using GET /exercises/:id
Request
The path parameter will contain the ID of the document.
No request body (you don't need to validate this).
Response
Success: If a document exists with the specified ID, the following response must be sent:
Body: A JSON object with all the properties of the document including the unique ID value.
Content-type: application/json.
Status code 200.
Failure: If no document exists with the specified ID, the following response must be sent:
Body: A JSON object { Error: "Not found"} or a more specific message.
Content-type: application/json.
Status code: 404.
4. Update using PUT /exercises/:id
Request
The request body will be a JSON object with all the 5 properties listed in the data model.
The path parameter will contain the ID of a document.
Response
Success: If the request body is valid and a document exists with the specified ID, then the document must be updated and the following response must be sent
Body: A JSON object with all the properties of the updated document including the ID.
Content-type: application/json.
Status code: 200.
Failure: If the request body is invalid then the following response must be sent
Body: A JSON object { Error: "Invalid Request"} or a more specific message.
Content-type: application/json.
Status code: 400.
Failure: If no document exists with the specified ID, the following response must be sent:
Body: A JSON object { Error: "Not found"} or a more specific message.
Content-type: application/json.
Status code: 404.
Note: first check the validity of the request body and if it is invalid, return the response with status code 400. Only look for the existence of the document if the request body is valid.
5. DELETE using DELETE /exercises/:id
Request
The path parameter will contain the ID of the document.
There will not be a request body (you don't need to validate this).
Response
Success: If a document exists with the specified ID, it must be deleted and the following response must be sent:
Body: No response body
Content-type: Not applicable
Status code: 204.
Failure: If no document exists with the specified ID, the following response must be sent:
Body: A JSON object { Error: "Not found"} or a more specific message.
Content-type: application/json.
Status code: 404.
Technical Requirements
Separate Model Code from Controller Code
Your model code must be separate from your controller code.
You cannot import the mongoose package in your controller code.
You cannot import the express packages in your model code.
Your model code can be in as many files as you want.
Similarly, your controller code can be in as many files as you want.
However, the model code and the controller code must be in separate files.
Use a .env file
Your REST API must use a .env file with 2 variables
PORT with value 3000, which is the port on which the Express server for the REST API will receive HTTP requests, and
MONGODB_CONNECT_STRING with the connect string that must be used to connect to the MongoDB server on a localhost or the Atlas Cluster cloud drive.
When testing your program we will change the value of this string to the MongoDB server we want to use for testing.
Use ES Modules
Your REST API code must use ES modules (i.e., you cannot use Common JS modules).
Hints & Suggestions for the REST API
You can write the code to validate the request body from scratch, or write it using the package express-validator Links to an external site., whichever you prefer. <-- Not required.
The Mongoose function updateOne Links to an external site.returns a promise that resolves to an object with information about the update operation.
The value of the property matchedCount is 0 if no document matched the filter passed to updateOne.
You can use this to determine if a document with the specified ID exists or not.
The Mongoose function findById Links to an external site.returns a promise.
If a document is found matching the ID then the promise resolves to that document.
Otherwise the promise resolves to a null value.


React frontend/UI
The React app for this assignment is very similar to the movie-ui-frontend React app implemented in Module 9. The frontend/ui must have its own directory (separate from the REST API backend), its own package.json file, and its own node_modules folder. The UI must have the following 3 pages:

Home Page.
Edit Exercise Page.
Create Exercise Page.
Global Design Features
Add semantic page layout HTML tags to the App.js file:

The <header> tag will include a heading level 1 <h1> tag to specify the app's name (be creative) and a paragraph <p> that describes it (such as a short, catchy slogan).
The <nav> tag will call a Nav.js component. This component will import Link from the React Router Dom. The function will include a <nav> tag with <Link>s to the Home and Create pages.
The <main> tag will include the <Route> tags to import each page's content.
The <footer> tag will include the your first and last name in a copyright statement: © year first last.
Home Page
This page is rendered when the app starts up.
The page must display the data for all the exercises stored in MongoDB.
The page must get the data by calling the endpoint GET /exercises in the REST API.
The data must be displayed in an HTML table.
Each row must display the 5 properties listed in the data model. The ID value must not be displayed.
In the table's row component file, truncate the resulting date's number of characters to 10 by adding this to the table row's date column: {exercise.date.substring(0,10)}. This will keep the time characters from showing when using the <input type="date" /> date picker.
In addition to the data, each row must include 2 icons from the React Icons library Links to an external site., one to support deleting the row and the other for updating the row.
You can choose any suitable icon from the library that clearly indicates the correct use of clicking on it.
Clicking on the delete icon must immediately delete the row by calling the endpoint DELETE /exercises/:id in the REST API.
Clicking on the edit icon must take the user to the Edit Exercise Page.
You must implement a React component for the table and another for the row. You can implement as many React components beyond these two as you want, e.g., the row itself may contain other React components.
Edit Exercise Page
This page will allow the user to edit the specific exercise for which the user clicked the edit icon.
The controls to edit the exercise must be pre-populated with the existing data for that row.
Use a <select> element to provide the options for selecting the value of units in the Edit Exercise Page and the Create Exercise Page.
You must provide a button that:
Saves the updated exercise by calling the endpoint PUT /exercises/:id in the REST API, and
If the update is successful (i.e., the response status code is 200), then:
Shows an alert to the user with a message about the update being successful, and
Automatically takes the user back to the Home page.
If the update is unsuccessful (i.e., the response status is not 200), then
Shows an alert to the user with a message about the update having failed, and
Automatically takes the user back to the Home page.
Create Exercise Page
This page will allow the user to add a new exercise to the database.
You must provide input controls for the user to enter the 5 required properties.
You must provide a button that:
Saves this new exercise by calling the endpoint POST /exercises in the REST API, and
If the creation is successful (i.e., the response status code is 201), then:
Shows an alert to the user with a message about the exercise being created, and
Automatically takes the user back to the Home page.
If the creation is unsuccessful (i.e., the response status is not 201), then
Shows an alert to the user with a message about the exercise creation having failed, and
Automatically takes the user back to the Home page.
Technical Requirements
Function-Based Components
Your React components must be function-based. You are not allowed to define class-based components.
Use a .env file & set the proxy property
The frontend React app must use a .env file with a variable PORT=8000 which is the port on which the Express server for the React app will receive HTTP requests.
The React app's package.json file must include the proxy property: "proxy": "http://localhost:3000", which correlates with the backend REST API's port.
CSS
Update and add rules to the existing App.css file that resides in the /src folder. Refer to Exploration — Introduction to CSS and Frontend Design and Exploration — CSS Methods. Do not copy color and spacing from the demonstration sites; define your own fonts, colors, and spacing. You may reuse your Assignment 4 styles as long as you've made all corrections, if any, based on scoring Rubric feedback. Do not use an outside stylesheet or templating system.

Login to Replit to copy the Global Stylesheet Links to an external site.(from Exploration — Introduction to CSS and Frontend Design).
Paste the Global Stylesheet comment/prompts into your App.css< file to use as a guide.
(Optional) Import a Google font.
(Optional) Define color variables to use in the following rules.
(Optional) You may delete any selectors you end up not using. Do this step after you finish the design work.
Don't define classes you don't need; it is preferable to add property:value rules to existing selectors.
Do not use white, black, auto, or Times New Roman font in any selectors. They are defaults and should be redefined.
Define the body {} rule's values for text color, background color, font-family, font-size, margin, and padding properties.
Define the nav, nav a, and nav a:hover rules' values for background-color, color, border, font-size, font-weight, margin, padding, text-decoration, and vertical alignment properties. The goal is to design anchors that are fat enough for a finger to touch and to differentiate them from regular text anchors.
Define the header and footer rules' values for background-color, color, border, font-size, font-weight, margin, and padding properties.
Define the main rule's values for background-color, color, border, and padding to differentiate it from the header and footer.
(Optional) Add h1 and h2 rules to update the font-family, colors, and sizes.
Define the table rule to collapse the borders.
Define the tr, th, and td rules' values for border and padding properties.
(Optional) Define a subtle row color changes using :nth-child(even).
Define the form, input, select,, and button rules' values for padding and font properties. The font should match the body font rule. These form controls should be easier to type in due to an increase in padding and font-size.
(RECOMMENDED) Define label rules to improve usability, such as label {display:block;}
(Optional) Define the :focus, :valid, :invalid, and ::placeholder rules for input and button.
